---
layout: post
title:  "Retrospective - 1"
date:   2020-06-28 15:05:00 +0530
published: false
categories: personal learning blog
---

Writing this down since I keep forgetting things and because now I think it is really important to see how different events in life create a ripple effect to create one's self.
Obviously, I can't possibly write down every possible thing, and some of my facts might be wrong here. Also things which I remember but didn't right down also play a major role, but I am just going to write down things which are related to later events in my life.

<!-- Notes: -->
* 2001: Around this time father bought a computer for doing his office work, I was of around 7 years 
at that time. At this time, I think we had Windows 98. There was no CD drive, I remember fiddling around with the metallic part which makes a click on releasing it [TODO: img]
* 2002: Around this time, I played my first PC game. I think it was 'Day of The Tentacle' [TODO: img]. I wasn't really able to understand anything in the game though, was just clicking around in random places and was just looking at the animations on the screen. I remember the name of the game since I found it while scrolling through a retro games website.
* 2002: Roughly around this time, father started subscription for a magazine called "Digit" [TODO: img]. I loved reading that magazine, that subscription would go on for another 7-8 years. Digit was especially since it also came with a CD which had bunch of demo software and games. We had Windows XP and computer with CD-Drive now so I was able to browse around and install games from the Digit CDs. This went around for several years, it was like a sandboxed version of the internet which would refresh every month.
* 2002: Played all the usual demo games which were popular during that time, I was getting them with the Digit CDs : Roadrash, Midtown Madness, Need for Speed, Virtua Cop. I took bunch of CDs and installed these games on my cousins' PC. At this point in time I was on the same level in my tech "know-how" as my 5 year old elder brother. One time there was a software named "Nero Burning Rom" in Digit, Apparently you could store your own stuff in CDs. That was great, I carefully filtered through my Digit CD collection to find one which had the most useless software on it.
  Then I noted all the games I wanted to store in the CD (the entire directory which had the executable of course, I didn't knew the difference between installers and executables). I launched Nero pretty excited to finally create a CD with my own stuff in it. Of course this was not a success and Nero promptly raised an error as the CD was not writable.
* 2003: Eventually I wanted full versions of games as the demos didn't last long. My brother one day brought home a CD which had no labels/stickers on it. He told me it had some of full games on it and had bought him from his "friend". Piracy was pretty rampant in India (still is, people don't want to pay for entertainment at home) but no one knew it was "piracy", as everyone was buying it off of shops[TODO: img]. We never saw anything wrong in our actions.
* 2004: Around this time the games started getting more advanced, and my computer was able to run some games and some not. That's when I started reading the "Systems Requirement" section which was present in the magazine. I remember installing CPU-Z to find out the configuration of my own machine. Digit had a section where they had reviews/benchmarks of different PC components, all of that started to make some sense. But still, after installing every game there was this "excited anxiety" of sorts when the screen went black for couple of seconds. Either you could see the publisher logo and stuff or back to the dreaded windows explorer.
* 2005: This was the first time I got a full game with Digit. It was "Ragnarok Online", the CD had a really cool print on it and was present in a separate envelope. I didn't knew what the 'Online' part in the name meant. I was unable to install the game, as I didn't have an internet connection. I didn't knew what the internet was at that point.
* 2006: We moved to a township all the people worked in the same company. It was like a self sustaining mini city.  We had a library which had bunch of computers which were apparently connected to this internet. Days later I had Orkut [TODO: img] and Hi5 accounts, because thats what we do on the internet, right ? My online social circle was an exact replica of my physical one.
* 2007: Got a dial-up connection at home, as everyone was getting it. Also now I could finally activate the "free" version of my antivirus ! But I had to register using an email account: I decided to create a new email account on 'gmail' this time with the most obvious name. I still use the same email, makes up for an interesting story.
* 2007: My English was improving in terms of listening and reading all thanks to bunch of books, magazines and games. Internet was just Orkut/Hi5 for me. My comprehension was not that great, because I don't remember the stories of any of the games I played at that time.
* 2007: After much persuasion, We got a new PC, I don't remember the specs, but I think it had Windows Vista at that point. Also with that PC I also got rid of the old CRT style monitor.
* 2007: I played my first online game..No it wasn't World of Warcraft, Counter-Strike... it was "Dance Mela" [TODO: img]. It was a rhythm based game which had some social aspects in it. I made some friends through it, and I eventually became "close" with a girl there. I wanted to know if she was "real" or not, so I asker for her number. I vividly remember how nervous I was, I went outside the house and behind a tree so that no one could see me talking on a phone (especially my parents). When she picked up, I couldn't even say anything as that was the first time I was talking to a stranger. I dropped the call and called her again after some minutes. We talked about some random stuff I don't recall, it was the only call we had. She eventually stopped coming online, and then after some months the server shutdown. It was a really fun game, but unfortunately internet in India had no penetrated much at that time and devs had to shut that game down, More info: https://www.medianama.com/2009/10/223-kreeda-begins-games-services-business/
* 2008: Another freeware game I started playing, which came out on Digit too, was "Trackmania Nations" [TODO: img]. I was able to play it online even on a very slow internet connection. Even though it is a racing game, it is not "realtime" as such. Trackmania is probably my favorite racing game, and I am so happy to see that the series still lives on and the new TrackMania game is going to get released soon. They still stick to what made the first games so popular. I was practically addicted to TrackMania. There were not many players playing from India (or even Asia). About 2 years later I became on of the top 100 players in Asia.
* 2008: Not much changed in my life, I was stagnant in a way, just playing random games and stuff. I was the infamous "computer guy" in school.
* 2009: Shifted to a new city, this time was living in actual city which had multiple schools and stuff. Got a better internet connection, so now a song took 5 minutes to download instead of 15 minutes. Nobody around me played games/was interested in computers. So I changed too..I started getting into fights/doing stupid shit/making fun of others (low key bullying?) including teachers and various such things which I thought were very "cool". Never really felt any kind of social awkwardness.
* 2010: Shifted schools in the city. I got a really check, I found out that I wasn't good at anything. I sucked at sports or even being "cool". I noticed that I was the "short" one now. 90% of my class was taller than me. I continued my shenanigans for sometime, but eventually went back to my "gaming" life, as there I could just escape from all of this "physical" stuff.
* 2011: Maybe I exagerrated a bit, but social life was pretty okay, I had couple of good friends and I was playing sports, going for classes and doing "coaching" for the dreaded IITs. The bane of existence for all the Indian school kids who chose PCM (Physics, Chemistry and Maths).
* 2011: Around this time I made a very good friend, let's call him G. G was/is like a genius who doesn't want to admit he is a genius since the concept of someone being a "genius" seems too absurd and funny at the same time. Well, I don't know what he thinks, its just my perception, we never talked about this stuff. Anyways, G was like a version of me which was properly "evolved" in all aspects. He was far better than me in the games we played, he was physically in a far better shape, he was better at school than me. I cannot lay a finger on something which we wasn't objectively better than me (probably sports).
* 2011: As I found more about G, it shattered my own distorted self of personal achievements and accomplishment. When I thought I was typing fast at 60 wpm, he was casually doing 90-100 wpm. I later found out he was playing WoW (World of Warcraft) since years and his typing speed improved because of that. Our friendship grew stronger, although we wouldn't admit it during that time since for us the concept of "friends" was something for the girls to talk about.
* 2011: Now that I think 2011 may be the most important event of my life. I had to chose one of "Physical Education" and "C++ programming" as one of the optional subjects during high school. I new nothing about programming, but G took "C++", so obviously I took it.
* 2011: In our "C++" class everyone was supposedly understanding everything but I was in the deep deep darkness. I understand absolutely nothing about programming. Sometimes you can sense that maybe the teacher is not teaching it the right way, but I didn't like that to me. It felt that something was missing in my own "intellect" to understand programming.
* 2011: I remember in one of the classes, the teacher was explaining "for loops in C++". As always I was getting none of it, I became so frustrated with it that I decided to change my optional to "Physical Education". I was convinced I was not made to do programming. I thought I cannot understand programming just as I cannot understand chemistry. I hated both things equally.
* 2011: One day I told my parents about this "decision"


